Post submit edits old > main (#298)
symbiotic-engineering/MDOcean: pubs/applied-ocean-research-model/sections/discussion.tex

\subsubsection{Effect of Bulk Dimensions on Hydrodynamic Efficiency}
\ifdefined\DISSERTATION
    A brute-force sweep of nondimensionalized bulk geometry variables and the nondimensional wavenumber $m_0h$ allows for the identification of design trends.

>     MDOcean performs a six-dimensional sweep with \resultsAOR[meemSweepSize] combinations in only \resultsAOR[meemSweepTime], an average of 16~ms per combination.

Author: if I'm gonna hardcode, at least do it in a more centralized place to more easily update

\begin{table}[htbp]
\caption{Future model improvements}
    \label{tab:future-work}
    \expanded{
        \noexpand\tabular{\TableColumnSpecs{aor:future-work}}
    }
Enhance Trust in Achievable Studies  & Unlock New Studies  \\ \hline
\modelTrustBuilders                & \modelStudyEnablers \\
    \endtabular
    \end{table}

\ifdefined\DISSERTATION
    \paragraph{Neglect of Surge Force and Mooring Cost}
    \Cref{sec:design-load-cases} establishes that although the dynamics model estimates the surge force, the structures model uses only the heave force to calculate the factors of safety.
    The neglect of surge force means that geometries with significant lateral areas that would experience high surge force appear to perform better than they should.
    This is not only because of the impact on the structures module, but also because the surge force drives mooring cost, an effect which is not modeled in this study.

>     The model predicts that the nominal RM3 design experiences a storm surge force of \resultsAOR[surgeForceFloatNominal] on the float and \resultsAOR[surgeForceSparNominal] on the spar, compared to the 8.5 MN nominal heave force.

Author: same hardcoded

Author: ```suggestion
    The model predicts that the nominal RM3 design experiences a storm surge force of \resultsAOR[surgeForceFloatNominal] on the float and \resultsAOR[surgeForceSparNominal] on the spar, compared to the \resultsAOR[heaveForceNominal] nominal heave force.
```

    Additional model refinements that would build trust without unlocking new study types include local buckling and effective-breadth criteria in the structures module, FEA-based validation of the structural model, additional PTO nonlinearities (drivetrain friction, check-valve rectification, power saturation), and Miner's-law fatigue analysis coupled with storm-sea-state contour modeling for finite-lifetime designs.
    Per-item rationale and implementation paths are in \citet{mccabe_dissertation_2026}.
\fi

\ifdefined\DISSERTATION
    \paragraph{Runtime Improvements}
    The runtime of the simulation could also be improved, either by further simplifying the model
    or by implementing code optimizations to avoid unnecessary computations.
    Early MDOcean versions (v0.2.0 to v0.3.1) ran in under 40~ms,

>     about one third of the time of the current version.

Author: third should auto update
